docs: Consul v1.22 release assembly branch (#22907)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/commands/operator/utilization.mdx

  The operator audit command is used to generate a Consul utilization bundle for license reporting.
---

# Consul Operator Utilization

Command: `consul operator utilization`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/operator/utilization](/consul/api-docs/operator/utilization)

<EnterpriseAlert />

The `operator utilization` command generates a license utilization bundle that can be shared with HashiCorp. The bundle is written to a JSON file and can optionally be sent automatically to HashiCorp during generation. 

Air-gapped environments or environments that are unable to satisfy [automatic reporting requirements](/consul/docs/enterprise/license/reporting#requirements) can use the `operator utilization` command to generate a license utilization report that you can send to HashiCorp directly or submit using a different process.

Refer to [Automated license utilization reporting](/consul/docs/enterprise/license/reporting) for more details.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)

> are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tableshows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Commands do not support configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) or [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching), but the corresponding HTTP endpoint may support that configuration.
```
